# 0.1 Non-Linear Time Machine Construction for 0-2 yrs

The benefits of asynchronous construction allowed in time machines are myriad: for example, you can use the machine you are building to come back and _start building the machine earlier_ if you run over-schedule. The same is somewhat true for ```git```.


## make a new branch

imagine the following:

have a master branch
```
git status
```

want to edit it in a separate line (e.g. amplicon jobs for ITS). The ```checkout``` command changes branch, but also resets your actual ```dir``` and contents to how that branch looked the last time you worked on it. Git won't allow ```checkout``` if you have uncommited changes in this branch (see below), as those changes would be lost.

```
git checkout -b ITS  # short for branch & checkout
nano analysis/R/R_ITS_approach.R

# can then commit your changes to this independent ITS branch
git commit -a -m "added ITS approaches"
```


## merging branches (i.e. incorporate a patch)

Imagine this instead: There's a new DADA (3!), and you need the DADA2 pipe to remain operable while you tool up for the new features. You'll branch, edit, and then finally merge the new line back to the master.

```
# new branch from master
git checkout -b new_dada

# make your changes/additions to the relevant files
nano analysis/R/DADA3_a.R
nano analysis/R/DADA3_b.R
mkdir analysis/py/DADA3_a.R ...

# commit the changes, do some testing
git commit -a -m "new DADA3 approach hallelujah"
R ....
```

that works out, so merge the latest commit to ```master```. If there are no conflicting changes with ```master``` (i.e. no side branches in the meantime) ```git``` will treat this like a commit to master and simply ```fast-forward``` the merge (no real work to be done). Afterwards you can then _delete_ the ```new_dada``` branch, to avoid further confusion (save space, keep things simple, etc.). 

```
git merge new_dada       # merge is always with master (unless specified)?
git branch -d new_dada   # delete!
``` 

All changes are currently saved. 
   
   
## merging branches (i.e. combining different branches)

You could then change back to ITS to apply some of the lessons you've learned via DADA3 - so change to the ```ITS``` branch. Remember that ```checkout``` will reformat your ```dir```, and will not work if you have outstanding changes to commit (check ```git status```). 

```
git checkout ITS
nano analysis/R/R_ITS_approaches.R
mkdir analysis/bash
nano analysis/bash/ITS_handling.sh ...
git commit -a -m "ITS progress"
```
   
We now have two lineages, one with new DADA3 capabilities (```master``` branch), and one with new ITS capabilities ```ITS``` branch). We want to bring these together into some sort of supermutant ```master``` - this is a _basic merge_. 

```
git checkout master   # destination, with DADA3 skills
git merge ITS         # merge candidate
git branch -d ITS     # delete ITS branch
```

this effectively combines those separate differences into a common ```master``` branch that can be used going forward. Keep in mind that this is not just moving ITS to the DADA3-master: ITS and DADA3 changes are rolled in with their most recent common ancestor point, _merging to make a new ```master``` version_ that is now the most recent version. 
not sure what'd happen if you'd a number of branches: parallel merges? Serial merges?


### Conflicts

Conflicts - have a guess. Imagine you'd amended _the same part_ of a ```readme.txt```, common to both ```branches```. You can query the state of things with ```git status```. Modified files will have pieces appended (prepended?) that note out the difference: ```HEAD``` refers to the version you're working from / have checkes out, while the candidate for incorporating will be noted under it's title. Conflicts can be mucked-out manually, or you can use ```git mergetool``` to use a ~GUI, incoporating a range of tools for different situations. 
On completion of your ```mergetool``` adventure, ```git``` will ask if everything went alright, allowing ```git``` to add the merge to the pipeline (verify this with ```git status```)
You can then resume your merge, with the appropriate message for what;s going on etc.

More complicated issues require a more complicated solution: see [```git``` tips on advanced merges](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/ch00/_advanced_merging).


### pushing a branch to remote

```
git push --set-upstream origin local

```
